{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green252\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c98700\c50000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 - Enlightenment driving a wedge between them. As a fire that opens the nutrients of science. \
- Science is a powerful tool, but it too is subject to the laws of evolution - finding easier progress in some routes rather than in others. If science feeds on empirical truth, not all empirical truths are created equally: in some, the nutrients are easier to access, providing fertile ground where science can progress rapidly, sped along by the simple sugars of apparent causes and effects. In others, perhaps a more lasting nutrition is based on harder truths. Science is unhealthy as it has been nourished almost exclusively on the easily accessible truths, and as goes science, so goes humanity. (An ecology of science!). \
  - A deep link between knowledge and health - how long has this been understood? But the type of knowledge dictates the type of health. Not all knowledge is equal, or equally accessible; and so the shape of our knowledge dictates the shape of our health. \
- Science more easily reveals causal chains that are immediate and apparent. This favors acute medicine. It leaves an entire discipline, a full class of questions, obscure. What is this class? Who suffers most from this class of problems? \
- A science of un-happening. Just as clinical medicine sees the dead as its ideal, scientific medicine as it is currently conceived needs disease to justify its existence. (Maybe note vaccine trials - it's difficult to demonstrate efficacy when an epidemic is on the way down). \
  - vaccination as strengthening the glass (and also removing rocks!) - but if it is successful, it is harder to demonstrate its success. \
  - same with sanitation, nutrition. Need to pin down this argument better. \
- Concept of Medicine: improvements in well-being have been mis-attributed to scientific medicine. \
- Ryle, the Concept of Mind: the metaphor of the glass. There are different causal statements, \cf2 \cb3 one active and one dispositional\cb1  \cf0 (the glass broke because the rock hit it; the glass broke because it was brittle). These reveal at least three ways of intervening: detect and intercept the rock, or lessen the rate of its impact; strengthen the glass; reduce the number of rocks in the world. \
- Clinical medicine is involved with detecting and intercepting the rock. Why? What makes this sort of causal element easier to know than the others? Dig into causal inference for this... \
\
- Vaccination - when rates of polio are extremely low, there comes a point where vaccination is associated with more adverse outcomes than polio itself is. In a sense, we can say that vaccination is the cause of elevated morbidity. It matters critically, though, which alternate universe we imagine. The current state of affairs, minus an intervention, is not always the best description of the world as it might be. }