{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Medicine as it might be - integrated into communities, preventive, procactive, not really distinguishable as medicine at all, because it is the upholding of well-being - the goal of phroenesis. \
\
The Greeks had a notion of health, and it was familial. The myth of Asclepius and Hygiea, together from the earliest Greek wisdom. \
\
Modern medicine is clearly in a different state. There are myriad reasons for this, but I\'92ll focus on one. \
\
Science as a beast devouring simple sugars. \
\
What are the simple sugars? Ryle and the glass - intervening on the rock yields more easily-access scientific knowledge than strengthening the glass. (Bring in the marble column too). Physics/chemistry vs biology/ecology/psychology/sociology\
\
With this in mind, we expect it to be easiest to identify things that pull a person back from death or acute disease, and that are closest to physics and chemistry. This is the picture of clinical medicine as it is today. \
\
Hygieia\'92s revolution may already be in place. Huge data sources and computational tools to deal with them is helping to access truths that once were inaccessible. \
\
A word of caution, as Hygieia strengthens. We must focus on not just what makes the sick community ill, but what makes the healthy community well. Foucault has showed us that medicine has developed an over-dependence on disease and fundamentally the dead body. There is a similar temptation in preventive medicine. We must study not just what makes sick communities ill, but what makes healthy communities well, and to turn all of the formidable resources that have now become available towards this end. }