{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 - Asclepius and Hygieia living as father and daughter, depicted together. \
\
Ryle and the rock and the glass\
\
In a world of flying rocks, there are two ways to intervene: to intercept the rocks, or to strengthen the glass. \
\
This is mythologized in the relationship of Asclepius and his daughter Hygiea. \
\
The family bond has been strained by the Enlightenment. \
\
Power, influence, politics have all played into clinical medicine reaching its stature: but I will focus on the \'93epistemological ecology\'94 that swelled Asclepius\'92 strength while leaving Hygieia to wither. \
\
Epistemological ecology!! \
\
\
Causes and effects \
\
\
Take a step back, and science is a beast. Truth is the substrate upon which it feeds, and our minds are its digestive system, turning the world as experienced by our five senses into growth of the scientific being. \
\
Like a mold, it will spread in the direction of the easiest nutrients. What are the simple carbohydrates of the scientific being? \
\
Causes that follow immediately after effects \
Large effects \
Repeatable effects \
\
Taking these as a starting point, what might we come to expect? \
\
Physical objects are likely to be more similar than individual people (I think that MacIntyre lecture had something useful to say about this\'85 see if I can remember it) .\
\
Hi space between the paren and the period! \
\
Perhaps the biggest effect is dead/not dead. \
\
For the effect (I.e. Not-dead) to follow immediately, we need death to be imminent - we are in the realm of clinical medicine. \
\
We also need the interventions to be repeatable. We have seen the evolution of the other sciences proceeding from physics through chemistry to biology. To social sciences? Ecology? Psychology? They\'92re so un-pinned-down that we don\'92t even know what follows after biology. Or what even distinguishes them, if they can be distinguished? Which cannot be reduced to something baser? \
\
This suggests that medical interventions that are closer to the physics/chemistry realm are likely more accessible than truths near the biology/social sciences realm. \
\
This implies a certain kind of intervention: one that is based on a physical/chemical understanding of the body, and one that intervenes when death is close at hand; or when disease is ongoing and may change course.\
\
That\'92s part of it - because when the rock is in flight, you can bet that the effect (no shattered glass) is going to rapidly follow after the intervention. If you shore up the glass, you have to wait for a rock to hit you (certainly in medicine, where you can\'92t just start throwing rocks at people) - and that can take much longer. \
\
Say instead of flying at a glass, the rock is flying at a marble column. It may make a dent, sometimes. There\'92s no difference in the causal structure here; just a difference in the apparent effects. Small effect; sometimes no effect; sometimes even the opposite effect. Much harder to tell how interventions adjust things here. Still easier to work in the realm of intervening on the rock, because of the temporal advantage. Here shoring up the strength of the column may take forever to find out of it\'92s effective. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}