{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 - Note some of this has been willful, related to power, negligence, lack of concern. Beneath all of that, however, is also an epistemic issue. Without addressing this issue, none of those others can be addressed in turn. \
- The snake represents wisdom, well-being, resilience. Asclepius listens to the snake, deriving from the principles of well-being how to bring a patient back from the brink of the grave. Hygieia takes a different approach: nourishing well-being itself. \
\
Foucault tells us that the dead body is the reference point of clinical medicine, the gravitational center around which medical knowledge orbits and from which it derives its meaning.  \
\
Should we devote ourselves more to the study of healthy communities, to avoid falling into similar traps? \
\
The ecology of well-being! Phronecology\'85. \
\
Epistemecology\'85\
\
What has led to the evolution of healthy societies? On what have they sustained themselves? \
\
Also - computers, the size of information available, is helping us to break down the complex carbs of prevention-type science. \
\
For the conclusion, a turn: we can focus on two different types of truths, now not separated by their ease of access, but by their type. We can focus on disorder, or we can focus on health. These may not be exclusive - indeed they cannot be - but Foucault has showed us that medicine has developed an over-dependence on disease and fundamentally the dead body. There is a similar temptation in preventive medicine. We must study not just what makes sick communities ill, but what makes healthy communities well, and to turn all of the formidable resources that have now become available towards this end. }